# af3_report

## AlphaFold Results Visualization and Analysis

This repository provides tools to facilitate the visualisation and analysis of protein structure predictions generated by AlphaFold Server.  It offers both a Google Colab notebook and standalone scripts for local execution.

Features:

Streamlined updating of AlphaFold zip files.
Generation of insightful plots from prediction results, including:
Predicted Aligned Error (PAE)
Predicted Local Distance Difference Test (pLDDT)
Inter-chain Predicted TM-score (ipTM)
Predicted TM-score (pTM)
Contact Probabilities


### Google Colab:

1. Open the Google Colab notebook.
2. vUpload your AlphaFold zip file.
3. Run the provided code.

### Local Execution:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install the required dependencies (see requirements.txt).
3. Run the scripts from your terminal using the following command format:

`python script_name.py folder_path [--output output_path]`

Replace script_name.py with the name of the script you want to run (e.g., pae_plots.py) and folder_path with the path to the folder containing your AlphaFold results. The optional --output argument allows you to specify a different output directory for the generated plots.


* `plot_summary.py`

Overall Workflow

The script reads the JSON files containing chain IPTM and PTM data.
It aggregates the data for each chain across all files.
It creates and displays boxplots for both IPTM and PTM data, saving the plots as images.

To run the script, provide the path to the folder containing the JSON files as an argument. 

Example:

`python script_name.py path_to_json_files`

* Optional Argument:

`--output or -o`: Specify the desired output directory for saving the plots. If not provided, the script creates a "summary_plots" folder within the input directory. 

Key Features:

Batch Processing: Efficiently processes all JSON files matching the pattern *summary_confidences_*.json within a given folder.


* `plot_pae_plddt_contact.py`

Visualizes protein structure prediction data by generating combined plots of pLDDT (predicted Local Distance Difference Test), PAE (Predicted Aligned Error), and contact probability matrices. It reads data from JSON files, processes it, and creates informative visualisations to help analyze the quality and confidence of predicted protein structures.

Example:
`python plot_pae_plddt_contact.py path_to_json_files`

### Key Metrics Explained:

* pLDDT: Per-atom confidence score (0-100). Higher is better.
* PAE: Expected error in relative positions of residues. Lower is better.
* pTM: Accuracy of overall structure.
* ipTM: Precision of inter-chain interactions.
*Note*: These metrics are calculated for "tokens", which encompass standard amino acids, small molecules, and chemically modified residues.
